---
title: Talk on mesh adaptation for compressible flows
layout: post
---

Mesh adaptation for PDE problems is important for complex problems since we cannot afford to use a large uniform mesh. In this colloquium talk, Aravind Balan will talk about metric based anisotropic mesh and solution adaption for compressible flow problems in the context of DG schemes.

> Metric-field based mesh adaptation for compressible flow simulations
>
> Aravind Balan  
> Dept. of Aerospace Engg.  
> Indian Institute of Science  
> Bangalore
>
> 14 November 2023 at 4:00 PM   
> TIFR-CAM, Bangalore and on Zoom
>
> Abstract: For resolving anisotropic flow features such as shocks, boundary layers, etc., in compressible flow simulations, anisotropic (stretched) meshes are much more efficient than isotropic meshes. Metric-field based mesh generation provides a suitable framework to incorporate anisotropic features of the solutions on the meshes. In this framework, the meshes are described by metric tensors that encode size, anisotropy and the orientation of the simplex mesh elements. For discontinuous Galerkin methods, discretization error control can be done using either h-adaptation, or hp-adaptation. Efficient h- and hp-adaptation methods based on metric fields are developed for discontinuous Galerkin methods for solving compressible flow simulations. The effectiveness of the adaptation methodology is demonstrated using both model and flow problems.

<p style="text-align:center">
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Xph0R8-GJJU?si=-A9hBaf9JeL7lZXy" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</p>
