---
title: Short course on physics informed deep learning
layout: post
---

Ameya Jagtap from Brown University will be visiting TIFR-CAM during 17 -- 21 October, 2023. He is an expert in physics informed neural networks for PDE governed problems and will be giving a few lectures on this topic. The lectures will be in hybrid mode, if you want to attend on Zoom, then write to me for how to watch it.

> Title: Physics-Informed Deep Learning
>
> Ameya D. Jagtap  
> Division of Applied Mathematics  
> Brown University, USA  
> https://appliedmath.brown.edu/people/ameya-jagtap  
> https://sites.google.com/view/ameyadjagtap  
>
> 18 October 2023  
> TIFR-CAM, Bangalore  
> Venue: Ground Floor Auditorium
>
> Abstract: In recent years, physics-informed deep learning (PIDL) has emerged as a powerful tool to solve many problems in the field of computational science. The main idea of PIDL is to incorporate the governing physical laws into a deep learning framework. The PIDL can smoothly integrate the sparse, noisy, and multi-fidelity data along with the governing equations and thereby recast the original PDE problem into an equivalent optimization problem. This approach has various advantages, including the ability to handle ill-posed inverse problems easily. Furthermore, it is a mesh-free approach and is capable of overcoming the curse of dimensionality. In this mini-workshop, I will cover the fundamentals of deep learning as well as physics-informed deep learning through hands-on coding exercises. I will also discuss some advanced PIDL topics, such as its current capabilities, limitations, and various applications, as this is still an active area of research.
>
> * Introduction to Deep Learning and Physics-Informed Deep Learning (10:00 AM - 12:00 PM)
> * Performance Improvement Techniques for Physics-Informed Deep Learning (2:00 PM - 4:00 PM)
>
> Each lecture includes hands-on coding exercises.  The recommended software:
>
> 1. TensorFlow 1 or 2 (ML library)
> 2. Python 3.6
> 3. Latex (for plotting figures)
