---
title: Talk by Boniface Nkonga
layout: post
---

```
Title  : Liquid Metal flow for magnetic fusion blanket  
Speaker: Boniface Nkonga  
         Professor, Université Côte d’Azur, 
         INRIA, CNRS, LJAD, Nice, France.
```

Understanding of the physics and control of thermonuclear fusion reactions has progressed in recent decades, with several fusion reactors being constructed and operated experimentally worldwide. Most explored configurations use a confinement system fueled by a Deuterium-Tricium (DT) plasma mixture. Magnetic confinement is the most advanced strategy for harnessing fusion energy for electrical power production. In this context, the DT plasma is confined by a strong magnetic field provided by superconducting magnet coils. Plasma activity is subject to instabilities (i.e., edge-localize modes and disruptions)  that release significant flows of electrons, neutrons, alpha particles, and heat (thermal and radiative) outwards from the plasma confinement. A nuclear blanket protects the superconducting coils from the adverse effects of plasma activity and interfacing with several other components essential to the machine's operation.

Liquid metal blanket face-to-plasma components offer an alternative to the most demanding protection challenges. They could withstand heat fluxes without permanent damage and open the door to entirely new magnetic fusion operating regimes. To realize this potential, innovative technologies must be developed. Liquid lithium surfaces are an innovation that could fulfill the promise of fusion power in electricity generation.

We are interested in the numerical modeling of liquid metal flowing as part of the blanket protection. This thin layer of metal flow is a promising alternative to protect against possible melting damages that Disruptions and MHD instabilities can cause in fusion devices. The liquid metal blanket will operate according to the principles of magnetohydrodynamics (MHD), which are the same principles that produce the Dynamo effect. Here, we will discuss some modeling and numerical challenges associated with the dynamic of a thin layer of metal flow under a strong magnetic field. This is one of the significant topics in the  Inria project team CASTOR (https://team.inria.fr/castor/) and the Eurofusion project team JOREK (https://www.jorek.eu/).

## References

1. On the exploration of innovative concepts for fusion chamber technology.
M.A. Abdou et al. Fusion Engineering and Design, 2001.
1. Compact fusion blanket using plasma facing liquid Li-LiH walls and Pb pebbles,  Victor Prosta, Sabine Ogier-Collin, Francesco A. Volpea, Journal of Nuclear Materials, 2024.
